So now we want to see if we
have unsaved changes right, and
this is part of the reason we kind of
save the content whenever we go and
store a current file.
And so that allows us to kind of know what
the last time we either originally opened
the file.
Or the last time we saved the file that's
currently kind of getting set in that
case, that's why we do
it all on one function.
Again, the actual specifics of your app
might call for a slightly different
approach, but in the context of what
we're working with, this works.
And so we could say,
is changed has changes,
which one do we like with has changes or
has changed?
>> Has changes.
>> Yeah, has changes good, cuz that's what
I internally had decided too and I was
gonna have to just be really polite if
you'd picked is changed, so that's cool.
In this case, we can just basically say
this is gonna be a super easy function,
which is yeah, current file content
is that the same as the content.
So far, we've been just sending
messages and getting the response.
To be clear, we have been doing
that because I tend to prefer
it versus that kind of invoke,
which I said before.
Allows you almost get a promise,
blurs the fact that they're sending
a message receiving you basically
just get a promise that returns.
But I will show it to you in this case
because I think it makes total sense,
I want to say, does this have changes?
Check the one we have in memory in
the main process and let me know.
But I find that bound send to a response,
I always find out that,
there's actually seven different
ways I want to open a file or
five different ways I want to save a file.
And I tend to want to decouple
the requests and response from each other.
But in this case of like,
yo I got some content is the same
as you have in memory that feels
safe to demonstrate this with.
So instead of IPC main on,
we're gonna use IPC main.handle,
and that is basically saying,
hey I'm gonna return the result,
and that's gonna be a promise
on the render a process.
Under the hood, this is simply just
making a Bi-directional send and
listener and stuff along those lines.
Which is why i find myself
often decoupling them,
so it becomes an async function,
obviously.
Personally care about the event,
the event object, and
this is something I don't tend to use,
but I just wanna point it out.
I'll show you over in this
one where I'm using an on.
I don't tend to use this,
but this is another option
that gets a very similar result,
which is that reply.
It's basically the same way I was
getting the browser window and
I was doing the browser
window.webcontents.send, right?
Event.reply does that for you as well,
the only reason you haven't
seen me use that so far.
Is i've been passing that browser
window to the dialogs and
doing a bunch of other stuff with
it before I send a message back.
Event.reply is the same as
taking event.sender and
sending a message back to it.
I just happen to be doing other stuff
with that browser window outside of
that event handler, so I am not using it.
But it is an option available to you that
I don't tend to use at all that often,
but you might have a use case for
it that I don't right, so yeah.
A lot of what I'm building right
now is taking our various SDKs for
the products that I work on and
building a UI.
The same way that GitHub has got that GUI
for the git stuff, so I'm more decoupled
and passing stuff around a lot more at
what I'm building currently.
But it could be useful to you and is
simpler in a lot of cases, so here we just
want to say has changes for the content,
that will look at the one in memory.
And I would love it if that would
just return back right, to say like,
yo are there changes here or not.
So this will be IPC main.handle instead
of on that is going to be the difference,
on is sending on or just sending
forget and hope the listener is there.
Handle, to your question wherever you
mistype the channel name you will get
yelled at.
Because it is looking for that one and
trying to get a response from it as
nothing catches it,
you will get yelled at, right.
So handle is more of a giving, it still
promises it's still asynchronous, but
it feels a little bit more I'm not sending
to a totally different process and
waiting to hear a message back.
You're just saying, I'm going to invoke
this and I would like the response
in the next line of code, please and so
let's get a sense of how that works.
And so we can start to determine
whether or not the file has changed.
Cuz then we'll hide or
show the save button based on that, and
then we'll also set the document
editing status as well with that.
So yeah, so detecting unsaved changes,
now we need to also call this to see,
cuz the DOM knows what it
currently has it's unsaved.
And we don't know right now,
we have no access to the browser from
here, we can only ask for things.
In fact, we can't even send message,
if you had that browser window,
you can send a message to it and
get a reply.
But generally speaking, we'll have
the DOM on an input or whatever,
I'll try to check, awesome.
So we go back to our preload script, which
is our bridge between will do check for
changes has changes check for
changes, right?
Yeah, you could also watch on the file
system and do this file has changed on
the file system, there's a bunch
of stuff that you could do.
As well check for changes.
Check for unsaved changes.
Check for unsaved changes, here,
we're going to do the IPC render check for
unsaved changes.
I don't know if that's what
I called it over here,
I think we just called it has changes,
right?
Has changes and now you can see
that we hit invoke instead of send,
invoke is basically send a message,
wait for the response, right?
And then return that response
back into this process as well.
So here we can just say, we can just
really return the result we can even
that's an extra line, but let's start
with just console logging it as well.
Cool and I will do something with
that information in a second,
we'll just start by console
logging it as a sanity check.
Before I get too far down
the coding rabbit hole here and
I do need to add that over here as well.
And that will return back
a promise that makes total sense,
we gotta send in the content though,
right?
That's probably what I was missing,
do we send in content?
Yeah, we gotta get that.
Cuz that was the first argument
that we send in content awesome,
I'm just verifying that to make sure,
yep, we send in content as a string.
We check, we return the Boolean,
perfect awesome, so
now we're doing that here as well.
We're also gonna console
log it along the way and
now it's available on that window.api and
we can see it here too.
So now we hopefully, really on the input
that's already an async function,
we can do, Check for
unsaved changes with that markdown,
and what's the issue?
Expected 0 arguments got 1.
Content string in the type, and so
yeah we should have that in place now, so
we will check that upon input,
and let's get a sense.
I wonder I don't need to wait on
the rendering of the markdown on that
response, that's going
to cause lag in my app.
You are still on the hook for performance,
everything you know about web performance
and JavaScript performance applies here
as well, you are not off the hook.
I'm not going to go into
that rant right now though,
we'll save performance talk for our
closing rant and we'll have this in place.
Awesome, so it's changed, right?
True, true, true, true,
true, false, right?
Cuz it was an empty string to begin with,
so now we know if the file has changed or
not, which is super cool.
And so we can go ahead and begin to do
various things based on that information.
And let's go ahead and open a file as
well just to verify that this all works
as expected all right, currently changed,
unchanged, changed, unchanged.
So now we can do two things based on that,
we can go ahead and say,
Elements.save mark down
button disabled is,
So disabled should be the opposite
of has changes, right?
And we can get rid of that line
where I disable it always.
Cool.
The fun part of Vite in memory,
we still have the same file in memory,
but then Vite did the hot module reload,
so that's fun, cool.
So on off, on off,
on off which is when did before I wasn't
messing too much with the nodemon stuff.
Things moving out from under with me
multiple processes stresses me out.
And I knew that if I
turned all that stuff on,
I would have one moment of deep
confusion in front of all of you.
For a very simple thing of one process
restarted when I didn't expect it to,
sweet.
So now we show and hide that button based
on the changes really what we need to do
is now represent that in the window.
Right and then we've got a fairly good,
I might leave you to set
the revert button as well.
In fact, that might be a thing that we do
as an extension exercise at some point.
But we've got the ability to
represent it now in the UI,
we just want to also represent
it in the main process.
You could argue whether or
not it should be handled here or not,
you can make it its own function,
I don't care what you do.
So I'd have to pass in the whole
browser window in there, so
what if I just said in this,
Changed cuz that will be a boolean and
then we can say,
we'll return that changed and we'll say,
Event.
We can't type like that in there, that's
silly, we'll get the browser window again.
And if it is changed, we'll do
the browserWindow.setDocumentEdited
to whether or not it's changed.
And so now we should get that full
kinda OS integration there as well.
And you can kind of see that small,
subtle little dot there,
which is Mac OS's way of telling you.
And I'll leave a little bit this is
an exercise to y'all along with revert,
is that you do get like abilities to
listen for events on the window closed.
So now in your main process,
you know if that given window
has an edited status, right?
And you can listen for a closed event and
you could do stuff, are you sure?
Right, and
those all kind of leave as little extra,
all those little nuances
are the I think the harder
part of building an app is just
getting all those feel things right.
But generally speaking,
electron has given you almost
everything available to do that,
you don't have to do any kind of crazy
stuff like reinvent your own title bar.
A lot of electron apps you see do
reinvent their own title bar,
right like VS code has done it
right behind me, the GitHub app has.
But they're still using the built
in macOS close button same for
windows and
stuff along those lines as well.